h1. Application Backup

h2. Introduction

Application Backup is a set of Capistrano recipes that allow you to back up applications remotely from a single client. This way you can centralize all your backup files and configuration if you are dealing with multiple applications on multiple servers.

This utility backs up the database and shared folders and archives them. The utility currently keeps the last five backups.

h2. Requirements

* rsync
* capistrano gem
* capistrano-ext gem

h2. Setup

This utility uses the capistrano-ext gem so you can set up a different configuration files for each application to backup. Setup a configuration file in config/deploy (see example_1.rb). To set the backup path see config/deploy.rb

h2. Usage

To backup an application:

<pre>
  cap example_1 firsthand:backup # backs up application example_1
  cap example_2 firsthand:backup # backs up application example_1  
</pre>
  
To backup the database only:

<pre>
  cap example_1 firsthand:db:backup  
</pre>

The database backup reads the database configuration file on the production server, dumps the database, compresses, copies it to the local server and then archives it (i.e. gives it a timestamp).
  
To backup assets only:

<pre>
  cap example_1 firsthand:assets:backup  
</pre> 

The assets backup rsync's the shared/public folder on the production server to the local server. It then compress and archive (i.e. gives it a timestamp).

h2. Scheduling Backups

Use a cron job to schedule backups. You can put all the backup commands into one shell script and then run the script as a cron job rather than having individual jobs for each application.

For example, backup.sh

<pre>
  #!/bin/sh

  cd /path/to/application_backup

  /usr/bin/cap example_1 firsthand:backup
  /usr/bin/cap example_2 firsthand:backup
</pre>